beoboot-cm 1.10 -------------------------------------------------------
This version should be used with BProc version 4.0.0pre7+
This version DOES NOT require cmtools.

The "kmod" node_up module is back in a modified form.  It no longer
requests modules from the front end after migrating to remote nodes.
This is good because 100s of nodes won't bog down the front end
requesting huge modules anymore.  The bad part is that stuff like the
old pciprobe module doesn't work anymore.

The note about sys_call_table for cm1.9 still applies with one change.
From 4.0.0pre8 onwards the BProc doesn't export sys_call_table so the
patch is always required.

beoboot-cm 1.9 -------------------------------------------------------
This version should be used with BProc version 4.0.0pre4+
This version requires cmtools version 1.1+

WARNING:  This is a barely tested release for Linux 2.6.5.

This version has been ported to Linux 2.6.5.  This affected mostly the
module gathering and loading code.

Romfs has been dropped in favor Linux 2.6's initramfs stuff.  Doing
that allowed us to get rid of genromfs and all the pivot_root()
related code in the boot up program.  Unfortunately, Linux 2.6.5
requires a small patch for the romfs file systems to be recognized.
It's included as "initramfs-search-for-init.patch". Hopefully, that
one will make it into future linux releases.

The name of the two kernel monte patch has changed.  It is now called
"linux-2.6.5-save_boot_params.patch" and can be found in the monte
directory.  Monte still requires sys_call_table to be exported (this
will be fixed at some point).  If the BProc patch isn't in the phase 1
kernel, you will have to add two lines to of code somewhere to export
it.  I added it to the end of kernel/sys.c like this:

  extern void *sys_call_table[];
  EXPORT_SYMBOL(sys_call_table);

So far, this has been tested on x86 and AMD64 only.

The 'kmod' plugin for node_up is broken in this release.

For information on other changes see the ChangeLog.

beoboot-cm 1.7 -------------------------------------------------------
This version should be used with BProc version 4.0.0pre2+
This version requires cmtools version 1.1+

beoboot-cm 1.6 -------------------------------------------------------
This version should be used with BProc version 4.0.0pre1+
This version requires cmtools version 1.1+

This is an update of beoboot for changes in BProc.  Note that linux
2.4.22 contains a bug which prevents it from freeing the contents of
the initrd.  The included "linux-2.4.22-unshare_files.patch" fixes
this.

For information on other changes see the ChangeLog.


beoboot-cm 1.5 -------------------------------------------------------
This version should be used with BProc version 3.2.0+
This version requires cmtools version 1.1+

The big change in this version of beoboot is that multicast boot image
download scheme has been replaced with a (hopefully) more robust tree
based unicast scheme.  The new scheme should hopefully work well on
any switched network (e.g. myrinet, ethernet, infiniband).  It should
be faster and less prone to problems, especially on large myrinet
networks.

!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
WARNING: Old phase 1 images will NOT be able to download a boot image
from this new server.  Keep a copy of your old beoserv binary around.
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!


Kernels for phase 1 boot images now require tmpfs support to work.
This change was made to give the boot program (and any plugins) a
writable root file system to work with.  Note that clustermatic
kernels (3 and earlier) do not include this support in their phase 1
kernels.

beoboot-cm 1.4 -------------------------------------------------------
This version should be used with BProc version 3.2.0+
This version requires cmtools version 1.1+

The configuration and nodeinfo stuff has been removed and moved in to
the "cmtools" package.  This package is now required to build beoboot.

beoboot-lanl 1.3 -----------------------------------------------------
This version should be used with BProc version 3.2.0+

WARNING: There are lot of big changes in this version so expect a lot
of rough edges.

The nodeup scripts have been replaced with a program which will keep
the number of processes and the amount of migration going on at boot
time to a minimum.  There's a new configuration file
/etc/beowulf/node_up.conf that controls the new node startup.  This
new arrangement is somewhat less flexible but it's necessary to avoid
severe load problems on the front end when many nodes are booted
simultaneously.  Also, many copies of "node_up" are now started using
bproc_vrfork() instead of individually migrating them off the front
end.  This new setup is more limited but *MUCH* faster when booting
large numbers of machines at once.  It may be slightly somewhat slower
bringing up single nodes.

The multicast stuff has been removed for library distribution at boot
time.  That change was made because the success of multicast file
transfer was overly network dependent and very flaky if anything was
going even slightly wrong.  "node_up" now loads all the libraries on
the library list into memory and takes them with it as it moves to the
nodes.  This makes migration off the front end very expensive but this
is mitigated by the use of vrfork for node setup.  THIS MEANS YOU WILL
WANT TO TRIM YOUR LIBRARY LISTS SO THEY DO NOT INCLUDE EVERYTHING IN
/lib AND /usr/lib.

This restructuring of boot-up is motivated by our need to support
different types of networks other than ethernet which may not support
multicast or broadcast in hardware.  It also makes the behavior of the
system much more predictable.

$MASTER in /etc/beowulf/fstab should be changed to simply MASTER

The file system creation and checking stuff hasn't been replaced at
this point.

Beoboot now requires the library versions of modutils to build as
provided by the "modutils-devel" RPM from Red Hat 7.3.  Sorry for any
inconvenience that causes.  We're trying to get away from maintaining
a modutils RPM.

Beoboot no longer requires a modified C library.  The dynamic linker
patch was only for demand loading of libraries which we're trying to
get away from.

beoboot-lanl 1.2 -----------------------------------------------------
This version should be used with BProc version 3.1.6+

There are some monte MONTE_PROTECTED related cleanups which require
that you patch the phase 1 beoboot kernel.  This is necessary because
the kernel normally throws away the information from the real mode
code after reading it.  It used to be possible to just find it at
90000h but boot loaders have begun putting that information at other
addresses.

beoserv requires some calls only present in BProc 3.1.6+ now.

The worst of the BProc dependencies have been removed.  The beoboot
script now does the link with bpslave when you generate the boot
images.  Beoboot does not require a rebuild every time BProc is
updated although boot images will have to be recreated.

Support for linking in the mon daemon (from supermon) has also been
added.  A supermon supporting this should be released soon.

beoboot-lanl 1.1 -----------------------------------------------------
This version matches BProc version 3.1.2+

The multicast file transfer protocol changed a little bit to preserve
file permission and ownership.  This makes it incompatible with boot
media based on lanl 1.0.

Support for multiple boot images has been added via the configuration
file.  For example:

bootfile   /var/beowulf/boot.img  # this is the default boot image
bootfile 5 /var/beowulf/boot2.img # Node 5 takes a different boot file.

You can also supply comma separated node ranges like 5-10,100-120

beoboot-lanl 1.0 -----------------------------------------------------
This version matches BProc version 3.1.2

This beoboot package is a derivative of the orignal beoboot package
from Scyld Computing.  Here's a quick run-down of what's changed from
Scyld beoboot 1.1.16.

Differences & Improvements:

 * Support for multicast file transfer w/ the BProc 3.1.x file request
   mechanism.
 * Support in daemons for new configuration language which allows multiple
   IP addresses per node and multiple MAC addresses per node.
 * Alpha support in Two Kernel Monte.
 * Many small bugfixes in the "beoboot" script.
 * Updated and cleaned up for Linux 2.4.x
   - depmod, etc seem to keep changing, bug fixes here.
   - tmpfs is used wherever possible during node boot.
 * Version checking on RARP requests to avoid answering requests for
   other architectures, etc.
 * mkbootimg produces different images - multi-architecture capable
   not and not nearly as bad an intel-only kludge.

Known Issues / Problems:
 * The RARP server no longer logs unknown MAC addresses it sees.
 * Multiple boot images (based on node number or MAC) are not supported.
 * Currently having a filesystem mounted on / in /etc/beowulf/fstab is
   not recommended since it will hide files downloaded by the file
   requester.
 * The docs are (as always) out of date.

- Erik Hendriks <hendriks@lanl.gov>, <erik@hendriks.cx>
